

1. What is Computer? a computer is something you use every day, whether it's for studying, working, or just having fun. It’s like a digital companion that helps you stay connected,
learn new things, and create whatever you can imagine

2. What are the essential parts of computer?

1. CPU (Central Processing Unit): The brain of the computer. It does all the thinking and processing.
2. Motherboard: The main board that connects all the parts together.
3. RAM (Memory): The short-term memory that helps the computer work faster by keeping things ready for quick access.
4. Storage (Hard Drive or SSD): The long-term memory where all your files, programs, and data are saved.
5. Power Supply: The part that gives power to the whole computer.

3. Who are the notable inventors of hardware and software. Cite at least (5) Software developers and (5) Hardware developers.

* Software *
1. Dan Bricklin – VisiCalc -Dan Bricklin was co-creator of VisiCalc, the first spreadsheet software available for personal computers. 
                  He received the Grace Hopper Award in 1981 for VisiCalc. He also founded Trellix, a website software company now owned by Web.com, and is founder and president of Software Garden.

2. Larry Ellison – Oracle - Larry Ellison founded Oracle in 1977 with $2000 of his own money. Oracle published the first commercially-available relational database and essentially launched the database market. 
                            Today, Oracle is the world’s leading supplier of database software and the second largest independent software company with nearly $10 billion in annual revenue.
                            Oracle recently acquired PeopleSoft, Siebel Systems and Hyperion.

3. Shawn Fanning – Napster- In 1998, Shawn Fanning created Napster, the first massively popular peer-to-peer file sharing system. 
                             Fanning appeared on the cover of Wired magazine and quickly rose to fame. Napster peaked in 2001 with 26 million users worldwide. 

4. Linus Torvalds – Linux - Linus Torvalds is a Finnish software engineer who initiated development of the Linux kernel. At the time, the GNU Project had created many of the components necessary for a free software operating system but lacked a solid kernel. 
                           The result is Linux, the world’s most popular operating system that’s not Windows.

5. Bill Gates – Microsoft - Bill Gates is co-founder and chairman of Microsoft, the world’s largest software company with 79,000 employees in 102 countries and $51 billion in annual sales. 
                            More than 90% of personal computers use the Microsoft Windows operating system, and nearly 50% of web servers run Microsoft software.

* Hardware *

1.  Joseph Marie Jacquard - In 1804, French weaver Joseph Marie Jacquard developed a loom in which the pattern being woven was controlled by a paper tape constructed from punched cards. 

2.  Charles Babbage - An English mechanical engineer and polymath, originated the concept of a programmable computer, though none of his designs were successfully implemented until 1991. Often regarded as the "father of the computer"

3. Joseph Marie Jacquard  - French weaver Joseph Marie Jacquard developed a loom in which the pattern being woven was controlled by a paper tape constructed from punched cards.
                           The paper tape could be changed without changing the mechanical design of the loom.

4.  Sir William Thomson - The first modern analog computer was a tide-predicting machine, invented by Sir William Thomson, later Lord Kelvin, in 1872. It used a system of pulleys and wires to automatically calculate predicted tide levels for a set period at a particular location and was of great utility to navigation in shallow waters. 
                         His device was the foundation for further developments in analog computing

5.  Arthur Pollen  - In 1912, British engineer Arthur Pollen developed the first electrically powered mechanical analogue computer (called at the time the Argo Clock).



4. Cite your reference/s 
*software*

https://www.devtopics.com/top-10-software-innovators-of-all-time/

*hardware*

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_computing_hardware


